Competency Element	A brief summary of how you have applied the element	Paragraph number in the career episode(s) where the element is addressed
PE1   KNOWLEDGE AND SKILL BASE 
PE1.1 Comprehensive, theory-based understanding of the underpinning natural and physical sciences and the engineering fundamentals applicable to the engineering discipline 	Working as the site Engineer, for one of the major construction company in the country, one of my key job functions was safety, management and supervision. I was responsible for coordinating and supervising construction workers and also overseeing the operations done in the site on a day to day basis and ensure work is done safely, on time and to the right quality standards During my working period with the company I ensured and emphasized on site safety thereby making safety inspections and selecting the right tools and materials best needed for the project by working in celestial with the team to seek specifications of the original safety tools and site tools and materials.

As part of the requirements in getting my B.Eng in Civil Engineering from the University Of Technology Minna, I was opportune to be able to carry out my compulsory six months industrial training at Nahman Construction and Engineering Limited. This is an indigenous Nigeria Construction Company with its Headquarters at Garki, Abuja. The company was involved with a lot of different roads and general construction projects at various parts of country at that time. I was posted to the road construction works that was being carried at the new campus {Gidan Kwanu campus} of federal university Minna,Niger state. During the course of my industrial training, I was able to gain a lot of work experience working with the company. I was placed under one of the project managers on the site who mentored me throughout the course of my industrial training.

I have found out that Fatigue cracking represents a major problem on Nigeria Roads. After the passing of a vehicle, the asphalt concrete layer tends to return to its original condition. But due to the constant movement of vehicles on the road, the asphalt concrete exhibits the fatigue cracking. Cracking usually starts from the bottom of the asphalt layer, where they move to the surface. Once they reach the surface, the cracks allow for water to enter the Road and cause the deterioration of the foundation layers. The cracks may also lead to the formation of potholes, which can cause damages to vehicles and even cause road accidents. I sought to find a solution to the problem which lead me to testing the addition of plastic in the construction of roads to increase its flexibility and reduce its fatigue cracking. My primary objective of this study was to evaluate the possibility for the extension of the fatigue life of Nigerian roads by adding new materials into the conventional Asphalt mixtures. I chose to use polythene bags and candle wax because they are readily available everywhere. To accomplish this objective, I carried out laboratory testing program this research project that included two types of mixtures: reference modified asphalt mix and unmodified graded mixes
	

CE3.1
PE1.2 Conceptual understanding of the mathematics, numerical analysis, statistics and computer and information sciences which underpin the engineering discipline 	While working with the company as the site Engineer I encountered a critical problem, which was lack of adequate modern technology. I approached and liaised with the subcontractors, planners on the need of adequate quality modern technology for easy and faster means for the company’s work. I achieved this and modern technologies like 3D printing, modular construction were brought in as a result of my strong demand. I applied the 3D, which uses a printer to build objects layer by layer. With the help of the 3D printer, I was able to work complex materials in a fast means and also combine different materials to get a single object. In the building of the prefabricated building I did my construction with the modular construction technique in which the buildings are produced on an assembly line to ensure that they are all produced exactly the same. With my introduction of this modern technology it contributed hugely to the company’s construction work by making its work much easier and cheaper to construct.

I was also tasked with taking samples to the lab for various types of tests to be carried out to determine the nature of the soil on the site. The classification tests is to determine the physical properties of the binder (asphalt cement), and aggregates which are the sand and granite to be used for the road construction. The asphalt cement used as the binder was subjected to different physical property tests. The first test I carried out was the specific gravity test was obtained by dividing the weight of an equal volume of binder by the weight of an equal volume of water. The penetration test was the next test I carried out which involved the determination of the extent to which a standard needle penetrated a well-prepared sample of the asphalt cement under definitely specified conditions of temperature load and time. The Penetrometer was used which allowed a 100-gram needle to move vertically downward without friction and the distance moved by the needle in units of tenths of millimeters was recorded as the penetration of the bitumen. I repeated the procedures five times and the average value of the penetration obtained and recorded for further analysis. I used the viscometer to measure the viscosity of the asphalt in order to obtain the resistance to flow of the asphalt cement. The test procedure I followed involved measuring the time for 50 ml of the binder to flow through the device at a predetermined temperature. The softening point test was done by placing a steel ball on a mass of the asphalt cement contained in a brass ring and heated in a water bath until the ball dropped through the asphalt cement. The temperature at which the ball dropped was recorded as the softening point of the bitumen.

In order to do carry out the test, I started by getting the materials I was going to use for the preparation of the asphalt concrete samples which would simulate the actual flexible pavement under investigation. I obtained the asphalt cement and the aggregates (gravel and sand) used was obtained from the Nahman Construction and Engineering Company. I also got the plastics in the form of wastes lying around like polythene bags and candle wax. This also enabled me to play my part in reducing the plastic wastes in my surroundings. The next thing for me to do was to carry out the laboratory tests and experiments which included classification of materials used for sample preparation, blending of aggregates and sample preparation of specimen for the conventional asphalt cement samples as well as the modified one where plastics and candle wax are added to the mix which was a representative of asphalt roads under investigation.	

CE2.3
PE1.3 In-depth understanding of specialist bodies of knowledge within the engineering discipline 	The company has been a leading real estate developers dealing in the buying of hectares of land and developing/establishing it by erecting buildings on it with a particular specification. My primary area of specialization in the company is the civil anchoring the area of design. During my stay in the company I recommended different technological means, which could enhance the company’s productivity. By technology, is not just about having computers and an internet connection in the office I contributed to the growth of the company by working on designs with software's like STAAD PRO for my structural analysis. I also worked with SAFE software in designing the foundation slab systems and concrete floors during construction. AutoCAD was not exempted during my design works, I used it in creating my 2D and 3D designs, drafting and modelling workflows, which allowed me to evaluate and understand the project performance, respond quickly to changes and also maintain the project data and processes consistently.

I was also tasked with taking samples to the lab for various types of tests to be carried out to determine the nature of the soil on the site. The classification tests is to determine the physical properties of the binder (asphalt cement), and aggregates which are the sand and granite to be used for the road construction. The asphalt cement used as the binder was subjected to different physical property tests. The first test I carried out was the specific gravity test was obtained by dividing the weight of an equal volume of binder by the weight of an equal volume of water. The penetration test was the next test I carried out which involved the determination of the extent to which a standard needle penetrated a well prepared sample of the asphalt cement under definitely specified conditions of temperature load and time. The Penetrometer was used which allowed a 100 gram needle to move vertically downward without friction and the distance moved by the needle in units of tenths of millimeters was recorded as the penetration of the bitumen. I repeated the procedures five times and the average value of the penetration obtained and recorded for further analysis. I used the viscometer to measure the viscosity of the asphalt in order to obtain the resistance to flow of the asphalt cement. The test procedure I followed involved measuring the time for 50 ml of the binder to flow through the device at a predetermined temperature. The softening point test was done by placing a steel ball on a mass of the asphalt cement contained in a brass ring and heated in a water bath until the ball dropped through the asphalt cement. The temperature at which the ball dropped was recorded as the softening point of the bitumen.
In order to do carry out the test, I started by getting the materials I was going to use for the preparation of the asphalt concrete samples which would simulate the actual flexible pavement under investigation. I obtained the asphalt cement and the aggregates (gravel and sand) used was obtained from the Nahman Construction and Engineering Company. I also got the plastics in the form of wastes lying around like polythene bags and candle wax. This also enabled me to play my part in reducing the plastic wastes in my surroundings. The next thing for me to do was to carry out the laboratory tests and experiments which included classification of materials used for sample preparation, blending of aggregates and sample preparation of specimen for the conventional asphalt cement samples as well as the modified one where plastics and candle wax are added to the mix which was a representative of asphalt roads under investigation.	
CE2.3
PE1.4 Discernment of knowledge development and research directions within the engineering discipline 

PE1.5 Knowledge of contextual factors impacting the engineering discipline 	Acting as the main technical adviser on the construction site for subcontractors, craftspeople and operatives was not easy task for me. During my working period in the company, in the sense that it wasn't easy carrying everyone along in the site work, to achieve my aim, I therefore liaised with the consultants, subcontractors, planners and the general workforce involved in the project is also communicated with clients and their representatives including attending regular meetings to keep everyone informed and updated about the progress. While working on my duties I didn't neglect my clients (architect, Engineers, Surveyor) because they will also contribute to my work targets. I made sure i have a good communication skill including written and oral with the ability to liaise with other professionals (architects, quantity surveyor, subcontractors and other engineers). Strong organization skills and an excellent methodical approach to work. My negotiation skill was not left aside because i used it mainly in having a heart to heart discussion with my client.

Aggregate gradations for both and granite were carried out and I recorded the results with their corresponding particle size distribution based on graphical plots. The laboratory procedure involved measuring specified weights of both aggregates and shaking them for not less than two minutes on each sieve size and by calculation obtain the percentage remaining on each sieve size. Similarly, by calculation the cumulative percent passing on each sieve was obtained. The aim of me carrying out the particle size distribution was to get the quality of sand and granite to be used for the construction works on the road network project. In order to get the specification requirements of aggregate gradations, I obtained the proportion of mixture for the sand and gravel by plotted a straight line graph of aggregate combination of percentage passing on each sieve size with the corresponding sieve size for both aggregates on the same graph . After which I obtained a mix proportion for each aggregate by locating their point of intersection on the graph.

The cracks may also lead to the formation of potholes, which can cause damages to vehicles and even cause road accidents. I sought to find a solution to the problem which lead me to testing the addition of plastic in the construction of roads to increase its flexibility and reduce its fatigue cracking. My primary objective of this study was to evaluate the possibility for the extension of the fatigue life of Nigerian roads by adding new materials into the conventional Asphalt mixtures. I chose to use polythene bags and candle wax because they are readily available everywhere. To accomplish this objective, I carried out laboratory testing program this research project that included two types of mixtures: reference modified asphalt mix and unmodified graded mixes	

CE1.3.1

PE1.6 Understanding of the scope, principles, norms, accountabilities and bounds of contemporary engineering practice in the specific discipline	The company has been a leading real estate developers dealing in the buying of hectares of land and developing/establishing it by erecting buildings on it with a particular specification. My primary area of specialization in the company is the civil anchoring the area of design. During my stay in the company I recommended different technological means, which could enhance the company’s productivity. By technology, is not just about having computers and an internet connection in the office I contributed to the growth of the company by working on designs with software's like STAAD PRO for my structural analysis. I also worked with SAFE software in designing the foundation slab systems and concrete floors during construction. AutoCAD was not exempted during my design works, I used it in creating my 2D and 3D designs, drafting and modelling workflows, which allowed me to evaluate and understand the project performance, respond quickly to changes and also maintain the project data and processes consistently.

The duties assigned to me includes the following
i.	Assisting the project managers, project supervisor and foreman in supervising all construction works.
ii.	Interpreting and using plans, specifications and methods of construction.
iii.	Take note of the supplies used each day for carpentry, concrete and steel form works.
iv.	Carry out various measurements on the site.
v.	Getting samples to the lab for testing
vi.	Assisting the foreman
The cracks may also lead to the formation of potholes, which can cause damages to vehicles and even cause road accidents. I sought to find a solution to the problem which lead me to testing the addition of plastic in the construction of roads to increase its flexibility and reduce its fatigue cracking. My primary objective of this study was to evaluate the possibility for the extension of the fatigue life of Nigerian roads by adding new materials into the conventional Asphalt mixtures. I chose to use polythene bags and candle wax because they are readily available everywhere. To accomplish this objective, I carried out laboratory testing program this research project that included two types of mixtures: reference modified asphalt mix and unmodified graded mixes	 CE1.1.2

CE2.1.2

CE3.1.2
PE2   ENGINEERING APPLICATION ABILITY 
PE2.1 Application of established engineering methods to complex engineering problem solving	I did my calculations on cut and fill with the help of a software program by defining the different features in the manual calculation, finally I adjusted the elevation s manually to calculate the optimal cut and fill. When calculating my cut, I created to a slope of two to one (horizontal to vertical) dimensions making the cut sections lower in elevation than the steep terrain. I also took the calculations of the fill and ensured the reduction of grade along the elevation of the route above the swampy ground and also covered the unstable soil, I therefore did the construction work with materials with a high a high bearing capacity to reduce differential settlement.
Though from the outset I wasn't convinced on completing the project within the time interval given to me by my project manager but with my thorough investigations and designs and calculations, I achieved the project before the time frame.


Aggregate gradations for both and granite were carried out and I recorded the results with their corresponding particle size distribution based on graphical plots. The laboratory procedure involved measuring specified weights of both aggregates and shaking them for not less than two minutes on each sieve size and by calculation obtain the percentage remaining on each sieve size. Similarly, by calculation the cumulative percent passing on each sieve was obtained. The aim of me carrying out the particle size distribution was to get the quality of sand and granite to be used for the construction works on the road network project. In order to get the specification requirements of aggregate gradations , I obtained the proportion of mixture for the sand and gravel by plotted a straight line graph of aggregate combination of percentage passing on each sieve size with the corresponding sieve size for both aggregates on the same graph . After which I obtained a mix proportion for each aggregate by locating their point of intersection on the graph.



In order to my tests to be accurate, I prepared test specimens for each asphalt content used namely; unmodified asphalt concrete and modified asphalt concrete for the medium category of traffic. During the preparation of the unmodified asphalt samples, I heated the blended aggregates for about 5 minutes before adding the asphalt cement was to allow for absorption into the aggregates. After which I poured the mix into a mould and compacted on both faces with 50 blows for medium category of traffic using a rammer freely falling at 450 mm and having a weight of 6.5 kg. Five ranges of asphalt content were prepared. After compaction on each face with 50 blows, I weighed the sample in air and also when fully submerged in water and recorded the results for each mix and for the traffic load. Afterwards I heated the samples were then heated in a controlled water bath for about 15 minutes at a specified temperature of 54°C. I did this to get the destructive temperature on the asphalt concrete necessary to cause worst conditions of damage. Next was crushing of the samples to failure and the maximum load at failure recorded together with the resistance to flow of the concrete at the point of failure.
	
CE1.4

CE2.4

E3.3
PE2.2 Fluent application of engineering techniques, tools and resources	In order to my tests to be accurate, I prepared test specimens for each asphalt content used namely; unmodified asphalt concrete and modified asphalt concrete for the medium category of traffic. During the preparation of the unmodified asphalt samples, I heated the blended aggregates for about 5 minutes before adding the asphalt cement was to allow for absorption into the aggregates. After which I poured the mix into a mould and compacted on both faces with 50 blows for medium category of traffic using a rammer freely falling at 450 mm and having a weight of 6.5 kg. Five ranges of asphalt content were prepared. After compaction on each face with 50 blows, I weighed the sample in air and also when fully submerged in water and recorded the results for each mix and for the traffic load. Afterwards I heated the samples were then heated in a controlled water bath for about 15 minutes at a specified temperature of 54°C. I did this to get the destructive temperature on the asphalt concrete necessary to cause worst conditions of damage. Next was crushing of the samples to failure and the maximum load at failure recorded together with the resistance to flow of the concrete at the point of failure.	

PE2.3 Application of systematic engineering synthesis and design processes	I did my calculations on cut and fill with the help of a software program by defining the different features in the manual calculation, finally I adjusted the elevation s manually to calculate the optimal cut and fill. When calculating my cut, I created to a slope of two to one (horizontal to vertical) dimensions making the cut sections lower in elevation than the steep terrain. I also took the calculations of the fill and ensured the reduction of grade along the elevation of the route above the swampy ground and also covered the unstable soil, I therefore did the construction work with materials with a high a high bearing capacity to reduce differential settlement.

I was also tasked with taking samples to the lab for various types of tests to be carried out to determine the nature of the soil on the site. The classification tests is to determine the physical properties of the binder (asphalt cement), and aggregates which are the sand and granite to be used for the road construction. The asphalt cement used as the binder was subjected to different physical property tests. The first test I carried out was the specific gravity test was obtained by dividing the weight of an equal volume of binder by the weight of an equal volume of water. The penetration test was the next test I carried out which involved the determination of the extent to which a standard needle penetrated a well prepared sample of the asphalt cement under definitely specified conditions of temperature load and time. The Penetrometer was used which allowed a 100 gram needle to move vertically downward without friction and the distance moved by the needle in units of tenths of millimeters was recorded as the penetration of the bitumen. I repeated the procedures five times and the average value of the penetration obtained and recorded for further analysis. I used the viscometer to measure the viscosity of the asphalt in order to obtain the resistance to flow of the asphalt cement. The test procedure I followed involved measuring the time for 50 ml of the binder to flow through the device at a predetermined temperature. The softening point test was done by placing a steel ball on a mass of the asphalt cement contained in a brass ring and heated in a water bath until the ball dropped through the asphalt cement. The temperature at which the ball dropped was recorded as the softening point of the bitumen.
	CE1.4

CE2.3
PE2.4 Application of systematic approaches to the conduct and management of engineering projects	I was given a task by my project manager when I was working with the company which is the task of building/constructing on a challenging site (steep site). Firstly, I did investigation on how to go about it to be able to erect a solid structure on the site. After my investigations and research’s, I came up with the idea of constructing along contours, I avoided retaining walls higher than 1m and also did balance cut and fill.



The project site I was assigned to entails having to design and construct an asphalt road network connecting various parts of the university. The work site was in a waterlogged area. This led to an increase in the cost of the project. Culverts as well as drainage systems were was designed and constructed to help with the flow of water on the site. After I was given an orientation by the project manager, I commenced my work in the company. My first duty was to assist the project supervisor in constructing a culvert across a section of the road where there was a heavy flow of water. This had to be done to prevent the road being damaged by the flow of water. Before commencing, I had to get all the design, measurements and specifications. During the course of the work, excavation was done so as to construct the foundation of the culvert. After which I supervised the steel and concrete form work on the foundation of the culvert. This was followed by the form work on the body of the culvert as well as the setting of the concrete to solidify. The concrete took about 28 days to fully harden. Care had to be taken through the whole construction work to prevent the failure of the culvert under load.



In order to do carry out the test, I started by getting the materials I was going to use for the preparation of the asphalt concrete samples which would simulate the actual flexible pavement under investigation. I obtained the asphalt cement and the aggregates (gravel and sand) used was obtained from the Nahman Construction and Engineering Company. I also got the plastics in the form of wastes lying around like polythene bags and candle wax. This also enabled me to play my part in reducing the plastic wastes in my surroundings. The next thing for me to do was to carry out the laboratory tests and experiments which included classification of materials used for sample preparation, blending of aggregates and sample preparation of specimen for the conventional asphalt cement samples as well as the modified one where plastics and candle wax are added to the mix which was a representative of asphalt roads under investigation.	
CE1.3.2

CE2.2

CE3.2
PE3   PROFESSIONAL AND PERSONAL ATTRIBUTES 
PE3.1 Ethical conduct and professional accountability 	While working with the company I endeavored to set standards and also provide skills development to enable the young employees to be familiar with what the company expects from them Because is known that without a clear or explicit expectations, people tend to find excuses when they fail to achieve assigned target. So I make sure am always clear at the outset. I also addressed the aspirational needs of the young employees under my care by providing opportunities for developing skills and advancing professionally to avoid being stagnation.

I was also tasked with taking samples to the lab for various types of tests to be carried out to determine the nature of the soil on the site. The classification tests is to determine the physical properties of the binder (asphalt cement), and aggregates which are the sand and granite to be used for the road construction. The asphalt cement used as the binder was subjected to different physical property tests. The first test I carried out was the specific gravity test was obtained by dividing the weight of an equal volume of binder by the weight of an equal volume of water. The penetration test was the next test I carried out which involved the determination of the extent to which a standard needle penetrated a well prepared sample of the asphalt cement under definitely specified conditions of temperature load and time. The Penetrometer was used which allowed a 100 gram needle to move vertically downward without friction and the distance moved by the needle in units of tenths of millimeters was recorded as the penetration of the bitumen. I repeated the procedures five times and the average value of the penetration obtained and recorded for further analysis. I used the viscometer to measure the viscosity of the asphalt in order to obtain the resistance to flow of the asphalt cement. The test procedure I followed involved measuring the time for 50 ml of the binder to flow through the device at a predetermined temperature. The softening point test was done by placing a steel ball on a mass of the asphalt cement contained in a brass ring and heated in a water bath until the ball dropped through the asphalt cement. The temperature at which the ball dropped was recorded as the softening point of the bitumen.	  CE1.1.2

CE2.3
PE3.2 Effective oral and written communication in professional and lay domains 	Acting as the main technical adviser on the construction site for subcontractors, craftspeople and operatives was not easy task for me. During my working period in the company, in the sense that it wasn't easy carrying everyone along in the site work, to achieve my aim, I therefore liaised with the consultants, subcontractors, planners and the general workforce involved in the project is also communicated with clients and their representatives including attending regular meetings to keep everyone informed and updated about the progress. While working on my duties I didn't neglect my clients (architect, Engineers, Surveyor) because they will also contribute to my work targets. I made sure i have a good communication skills including written and oral with the ability to liaise with other professionals (architects, quantity surveyor, subcontractors and other engineers). Strong organization skills and an excellent methodical approach to work. My negotiation skill was not left aside because i used it mainly in having a heart to heart discussion with my client.

As part of the requirements in getting my B.Eng in Civil Engineering from the University Of Technology Minna, I was opportune to be able to carry out my compulsory six months industrial training at Nahman Construction and Engineering Limited. This is an indigenous Nigeria Construction Company with its Headquarters at Garki, Abuja. The company was involved with a lot of different roads and general construction projects at various parts of country at that time. I was posted to the road construction works that was being carried at the new campus {Gidan Kwanu campus} of federal university Minna,Niger state. During the course of my industrial training, I was able to gain a lot of work experience working with the company. I was placed under one of the project managers on the site who mentored me throughout the course of my industrial training.
The duties assigned to me includes the following
i.	Assisting the project managers, project supervisor and foreman in supervising all construction works.
ii.	Interpreting and using plans, specifications and methods of construction.
iii.	Take note of the supplies used each day for carpentry, concrete and steel form works.
iv.	Carry out various measurements on the site.
v.	Getting samples to the lab for testing
vi.	Assisting the foreman	

 CE1.3
CE2.1
PE3.3 Creative innovative and proactive demeanour	I encountered a lot of challenges when carrying out the project work. The first problem was funding. It was difficult in carrying out the tests because a lot of the tests can only be done using specialised tools and equipments. My saving grace was that some of my former fellow course mates were also doing works that require the same tests so we paid together to use the laboratory thereby reducing the financial burden in carrying out the tests. Also getting the materials to use for carrying out the tests was another challenge. Luckily I was able to take permission to get samples from Nahman Construction and engineering company, the company I did my six months compulsory Industrial training program.
I was involved and participated hugely in the activities and construction works and contracts gotten by the company geared towards facilitating and enhancing the companies’ projects, thereby giving the company more hands over other companies as a result of delivering at any moment in Tim, working as the technical adviser and consulting services to our clients both new and low. And this activities ranges from liaising and having a warm discussion with our clients. I also ensured that clients gives a run down on how they went about the project and at the same time makes sure the information reaches to my project manager or the section in charge

CE3.6
CE1.5
PE3.4 Professional use and management of information	There were a lot of challenges that was faced on the site. There was a time the construction work on the culvert was put on hold for the christmas break. Upon return the walls of the excavated pit had caved in. The pit had to be excavated again so that the form works can be carried out on the culvert. Flooding was another challenged that was faced on the especially during the raining season when the rainfall is heavy. This can disrupt the construction work as well as cost time and money. Also accidents are another issues on site. That is why I always wear my personal protective equipments like helmets and safety boots when on site. I also make sure the labourer put on their PPE before beginning the job for the day.



I have found out that Fatigue cracking represents a major problem on Nigeria Roads. After the passing of a vehicle, the asphalt concrete layer tends to return to its original condition. But due to the constant movement of vehicles on the road, the asphalt concrete exhibits the fatigue cracking. Cracking usually starts from the bottom of the asphalt layer, where they move to the surface. Once they reach the surface, the cracks allow for water to enter the Road and cause the deterioration of the foundation layers. 
The cracks may also lead to the formation of potholes, which can cause damages to vehicles and even cause road accidents. I sought to find a solution to the problem which lead me to testing the addition of plastic in the construction of roads to increase its flexibility and reduce its fatigue cracking. My primary objective of this study was to evaluate the possibility for the extension of the fatigue life of Nigerian roads by adding new materials into the conventional Asphalt mixtures. I chose to use polythene bags and candle wax because they are readily available everywhere. To accomplish this objective, I carried out laboratory testing program this research project that included two types of mixtures: reference modified asphalt mix and unmodified graded mixes	CE2.5

CE 3.1
PE3.5 Orderly management of self, and professional conduct 	I was involved and participated hugely in the activities and construction works and contracts gotten by the company geared towards facilitating and enhancing the companies’ projects, thereby giving the company more hands over other companies as a result of delivering at any moment in Tim, working as the technical adviser and consulting services to our clients both new and low. And this activities ranges from liaising and having a warm discussion with our clients. I also ensured that clients gives a run down on how they went about the project and at the same time makes sure the information reaches to my project manager or the section in charge.
There were a lot of challenges that was faced on the site. There was a time the construction work on the culvert was put on hold for the christmas break. Upon return the walls of the excavated pit had caved in. The pit had to be excavated again so that the form works can be carried out on the culvert. Flooding was another challenged that was faced on the especially during the raining season when the rainfall is heavy. This can disrupt the construction work as well as cost time and money. Also accidents are another issues on site. That is why I always wear my personal protective equipments like helmets and safety boots when on site. I also make sure the labourer put on their PPE before beginning the job for the day.
The preparation of the modified asphalt concrete mixes followed the same procedure as for the unmodified asphalt concrete. However, I made modifications during the preparation in the addition of the polythene bags and candle wax. First I introduced the polythene bags and candle wax at optimum asphalt content. Secondly, after heating the aggregates and the addition of asphalt cement, I added polythene bags and candle wax to the mix continuously stirred for another 5 minutes. I obtained for each of the modifier content in their varying amounts for the medium traffic category in similar manner to the unmodified asphalt concrete samples. Also I obtained the compressive and tensile strains and recorded them accordingly	  CE1.5
CE2.5

CE3.5
PE3.6 Effective team membership and team leadership 	Acting as the main technical adviser on the construction site for subcontractors, craftspeople and operatives was not easy task for me. During my working period in the company, in the sense that it wasn't easy carrying everyone along in the site work, to achieve my aim, I therefore liaised with the consultants, subcontractors, planners and the general workforce involved in the project is also communicated with clients and their representatives including attending regular meetings to keep everyone informed and updated about the progress. While working on my duties I didn't neglect my clients (architect, Engineers, Surveyor) because they will also contribute to my work targets. I made sure i have a good communication skill including written and oral with the ability to liaise with other professionals (architects, quantity surveyor, subcontractors and other engineers). Strong organization skills and an excellent methodical approach to work. My negotiation skill was not left aside because i used it mainly in having a heart to heart discussion with my client.	

CE1.3

Petroleum Engineering Career Episode 2 Report
Industrial Training: Gaslifting Operations for Shell well; Bonga 
10/05/2011 to 20/12/2011 approx. seven months
Weatherford Nigeria Limited
2.1	As part of the requirements in getting my B.Eng in Petroleum Engineering from the Covenant University, Ota, I was opportune to be able to carry out my compulsory six months industrial training at Weatherford Nigeria Limited. This is the Nigerian branch of Weatherford International, A world class oil and gas services company with its Headquarters at Texas, USA. The company was involved with a lot of completions job for both onshore an offshore at that time. I was posted to the gaslifting unit of the completions department at the workshop. During my industrial training, I was able to gain a lot of work experience working with the company. I was placed under the operations manager who mentored me throughout the course of my industrial training.
The duties assigned to me includes the following
i.	Assisted the completions engineer in design for completions of wells, and in well maintenance for workovers.
ii.	Worked with the artificial lift department where I calibrated valves and helped the engineer design and maintain wells on artificial lift for our client.
iii.	Assisted in handling maintenance of Electrically Submersible Pumps (ESV) for weak wells of our clients. 
2.2	The well being worked on at that time was already producing sand, which made gas lifting more suitable as our client did not want to invest in progressive cavity pumps (PCP). The gas lift system was designed, and the gas lift valves calibration calculation derived. After I was assigned to my supervisor, my first duty was to assist the supervisor in calibrating the gas lift valves to the exact pressures. This had to be done to prevent the drop or abrupt stop in production. Before commencing, I had to understand all the design, measurements and specifications. During the course of the work, excavation was done so as to construct the foundation of the culvert. After which I supervised the steel and concrete form work on the foundation of the culvert. This was followed by the form work on the body of the culvert as well as the setting of the concrete to solidify. The concrete took about 28 days to fully harden. Care had to be taken through the whole construction work to prevent the failure of the culvert under load.
2.3	I was also tasked with taking samples to the lab for various types of tests to be carried out to determine the nature of the soil on the site. The classification tests is to determine the physical properties of the binder (asphalt cement), and aggregates which are the sand and granite to be used for the road construction. The asphalt cement used as the binder was subjected to different physical property tests. The first test I carried out was the specific gravity test was obtained by dividing the weight of an equal volume of binder by the weight of an equal volume of water. The penetration test was the next test I carried out which involved the determination of the extent to which a standard needle penetrated a well prepared sample of the asphalt cement under definitely specified conditions of temperature load and time. The Penetrometer was used which allowed a 100 gram needle to move vertically downward without friction and the distance moved by the needle in units of tenths of millimeters was recorded as the penetration of the bitumen. I repeated the procedures five times and the average value of the penetration obtained and recorded for further analysis. I used the viscometer to measure the viscosity of the asphalt in order to obtain the resistance to flow of the asphalt cement. The test procedure I followed involved measuring the time for 50 ml of the binder to flow through the device at a predetermined temperature. The softening point test was done by placing a steel ball on a mass of the asphalt cement contained in a brass ring and heated in a water bath until the ball dropped through the asphalt cement. The temperature at which the ball dropped was recorded as the softening point of the bitumen.
2.4	Aggregate gradations for both and granite were carried out and I recorded the results with their corresponding particle size distribution based on graphical plots. The laboratory procedure involved measuring specified weights of both aggregates and shaking them for not less than two minutes on each sieve size and by calculation obtain the percentage remaining on each sieve size. Similarly, by calculation the cumulative percent passing on each sieve was obtained. The aim of me carrying out the particle size distribution was to get the quality of sand and granite to be used for the construction works on the road network project. In order to get the specification requirements of aggregate gradations , I obtained the proportion of mixture for the sand and gravel by plotted a straight line graph of aggregate combination of percentage passing on each sieve size with the corresponding sieve size for both aggregates on the same graph . After which I obtained a mix proportion for each aggregate by locating their point of intersection on the graph.
2.5	There were a lot of challenges that was faced on the site. There was a time the construction work on the culvert was put on hold for the christmas break. Upon return the walls of the excavated pit had caved in. The pit had to be excavated again so that the form works can be carried out on the culvert. Flooding was another challenged that was faced on the especially during the raining season when the rainfall is heavy. This can disrupt the construction work as well as cost time and money. Also accidents are another issues on site. That is why I always wear my personal protective equipments like helmets and safety boots when on site. I also make sure the labourer put on their PPE before beginning the job for the day.
Summary Statement
During the duration of my six months Industrial training program, I was able to get a lot of work experience in the civil engineering profession. This has helped me in future engineering project works I have been involved in. Also the various challenges I faced on the site has also helped in improving my skill sets and provided me with better judgement of whatever I encounter in any new engineering work projects.

