
Petroleum Engineering Career Episode 2 Report
Industrial Training: Gaslifting Operations for Shell well; Bonga 
10/05/2011 to 20/12/2011 approx. seven months
Weatherford Nigeria Limited
2.1	As part of the requirements in getting my B.Eng in Petroleum Engineering from the Covenant University, Ota, I was opportune to be able to carry out my compulsory six months industrial training at Weatherford Nigeria Limited. This is the Nigerian branch of Weatherford International, A world class oil and gas services company with its Headquarters at Texas, USA. The company was involved with a lot of completions job for both onshore an offshore at that time. I was posted to the gaslifting unit of the completions department at the workshop. During my industrial training, I was able to gain a lot of work experience working with the company. I was placed under the operations manager who mentored me throughout the course of my industrial training.
The duties assigned to me includes the following
i.	Assisted the completions engineer in design for completions of wells, and in well maintenance for workovers.
ii.	Worked with the artificial lift department where I calibrated valves and helped the engineer design and maintain wells on artificial lift for our client.
iii.	Assisted in handling maintenance of Electrically Submersible Pumps (ESV) for weak wells of our clients. 
2.2	The well being worked on at that time was already producing sand, which made gas lifting more suitable as our client did not want to invest in progressive cavity pumps (PCP). The gas lift system was designed, and the gas lift valves calibration calculation derived. After I was assigned to my supervisor, my first duty was to assist the supervisor in calibrating the gas lift valves to the exact pressures. This had to be done to prevent the drop or abrupt stop in production. Before commencing, I had to understand all the design, measurements and specifications. During the course of the work, excavation was done so as to construct the foundation of the culvert. After which I supervised the steel and concrete form work on the foundation of the culvert. This was followed by the form work on the body of the culvert as well as the setting of the concrete to solidify. The concrete took about 28 days to fully harden. Care had to be taken through the whole construction work to prevent the failure of the culvert under load.
2.3	I was also tasked with taking samples to the lab for various types of tests to be carried out to determine the nature of the soil on the site. The classification tests is to determine the physical properties of the binder (asphalt cement), and aggregates which are the sand and granite to be used for the road construction. The asphalt cement used as the binder was subjected to different physical property tests. The first test I carried out was the specific gravity test was obtained by dividing the weight of an equal volume of binder by the weight of an equal volume of water. The penetration test was the next test I carried out which involved the determination of the extent to which a standard needle penetrated a well prepared sample of the asphalt cement under definitely specified conditions of temperature load and time. The Penetrometer was used which allowed a 100 gram needle to move vertically downward without friction and the distance moved by the needle in units of tenths of millimeters was recorded as the penetration of the bitumen. I repeated the procedures five times and the average value of the penetration obtained and recorded for further analysis. I used the viscometer to measure the viscosity of the asphalt in order to obtain the resistance to flow of the asphalt cement. The test procedure I followed involved measuring the time for 50 ml of the binder to flow through the device at a predetermined temperature. The softening point test was done by placing a steel ball on a mass of the asphalt cement contained in a brass ring and heated in a water bath until the ball dropped through the asphalt cement. The temperature at which the ball dropped was recorded as the softening point of the bitumen.
2.4	Aggregate gradations for both and granite were carried out and I recorded the results with their corresponding particle size distribution based on graphical plots. The laboratory procedure involved measuring specified weights of both aggregates and shaking them for not less than two minutes on each sieve size and by calculation obtain the percentage remaining on each sieve size. Similarly, by calculation the cumulative percent passing on each sieve was obtained. The aim of me carrying out the particle size distribution was to get the quality of sand and granite to be used for the construction works on the road network project. In order to get the specification requirements of aggregate gradations , I obtained the proportion of mixture for the sand and gravel by plotted a straight line graph of aggregate combination of percentage passing on each sieve size with the corresponding sieve size for both aggregates on the same graph . After which I obtained a mix proportion for each aggregate by locating their point of intersection on the graph.
2.5	There were a lot of challenges that was faced on the site. There was a time the construction work on the culvert was put on hold for the christmas break. Upon return the walls of the excavated pit had caved in. The pit had to be excavated again so that the form works can be carried out on the culvert. Flooding was another challenged that was faced on the especially during the raining season when the rainfall is heavy. This can disrupt the construction work as well as cost time and money. Also accidents are another issues on site. That is why I always wear my personal protective equipments like helmets and safety boots when on site. I also make sure the labourer put on their PPE before beginning the job for the day.